Sunil Singh
Johns Creek, GA   sunilmumbai@gmail.com   (205) 534-0550
IT Director

Adaptive, agile, results-focused IT Cloud Leader, Project Manager and Business Transformation Specialist with 20+ years of talent and operational leadership, executive vision mission planning, strategy planning, and directive expertise spanning multiple divisions to build trust and credibility while delivering optimal solutions through on-time and within-budget fulfillment. Resourceful IT Leader who can translate business needs to IT Strategy and articulate the need for change while delivering on it, to ensure effective deliverables and generating stakeholder value. Hands-on leader and team builder with an ability to establish cross-functional matrix teams and communications to mitigate issues, manage risks and drive success seeking to leverage background into an IT Director role for an agile and progressive organization.

Professional Value Offered
• Led multiple team members and monitored performance to ensure optimal productivity.
• Trained staff on best practices and protocol to drive efficiency.
• Designed and managed technology-enabled customer centric business solutions to drive innovation, agility and operational efficiency.
• Deployed IT applications, processes, agile methodology and productivity tools to standardize service delivery for 30 key countries.
• Led tracking and controlling of budgets and expenses and shared reports and metrics with leadership team and Global Business Continuity and Resiliency Services (BCRS) Executives to meet business objectives and challenges.
• Cloud Technology services and offering development, Data Center transformation to Cloud.

Professional Experience

IBM GLOBAL SERVICES/IBM GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES   1997 to Present

IBM Resiliency Services - Executive Program Manager (2008-Present)

Managed IBM Resiliency Data Center (DC) optimization, transformation, cloud transition, led projects to improve the service delivery and operations efficiency, and customer satisfaction. Reduced financial discrepancies by managing budget projects and budgeting challenges to ensure zero profit erosion. Successfully implemented solutions to improve order fulfillment, while improving Global DC service delivery process efficiency across multiple countries. Led DC energy efficiency initiative, minimized operational cost, skills and resource management, while improving asset utilization, tracking customers and respective contracts at each data centers. Managed SLAs and improved the customer experience, data center management, capacity planning, IT availability and business continuity planning, DR planning and testing, DC incident and problem management, change control management, resource syndication, risk management, business applications and productivity tools data privacy/security, IBM internal data security guidelines and audit compliance. Led X as a service IT service strategy development, IT service design, IT service operations management. Led cloud based new software as a Service (SaaS) offering development.

Key Contributions:
• Led and managed IT service strategy development, service design and service operation processes.  Enhanced service delivery processes, standardization across global data centers, and streamlining of IT Solutions at 354 Global Data Center spanning 54 countries.
• Led DC Cloud Strategy, DC transformation, Cloud Offering Management, Private, Public, Hybrid and AWS Cloud.
• Led budget planning and managed program and business controls in support to launch new cloud based Software as a Service (SaaS) service offering, Smart Cloud Content Management (SCCM), offering development, expense management/reporting, project recoveries, vendor management, tracking revenue and GP.
• Successfully managed the project with budget challenges, rationalizing and prioritizing deliverables and milestones. Interfaced with software/ECM team based in Germany by partnering on the development of the offering and the building of a Global Command Control in Poland for level one customer support.
• Guided DC service delivery teams in building processes and capabilities to provide global reporting capabilities and visibility to revenue, contract renewal, customer experience and satisfaction, site tracking/leasing information and KPI reporting.
• Led app development using agile methodology for tracking 354 worldwide data centers non-labor (HW, SW, NW, Facilities, Vendor) savings.


Sunil Singh -

• Utilized the saving tracker tool to track the realization of over $300M+ in worldwide Non-labor (Hardware, software, network, facilities, vendors) savings initiatives, while offering quick access to various savings initiatives, and process standardization for quick reporting and visibility to IBM Executives.
• Enhanced order fulfillment processes, data center capacity planning, DC strategy, investments and savings tracking, business partners and vendor management, resource and skills management, DR planning, scheduling and testing.
• Directed the Data Center Energy Efficiency and Thermal (temperature, pressure, airflow and humidity) control, monitoring and reporting system across 112 Resiliency data centers resulting in savings of $1.65 Mil.
• Built and deployed solutions to assist with BCRS resource and skills planning.
• Conducted strategy and fall planning by liaising with IBM Executives during fall planning in building strategy, competitive market analysis, portfolio and development priorities, and planning and allocating budgets for new offerings, projects, capital investments.
• Partnered with Global and Regional Business Leaders, and Country Executives in tracking business metrics for driving business growth, opportunity pipeline, and gross profit.
• Interfaced with leadership team to create market channels across developed markets, emerging and growth market units, help drive business growth, and meet business challenges.
• Executed new acquisition integration by leading business operations and financial process integration of new business acquisition (Arsenal Digital).
• Appointed to the BCRS Product Development CoE Team, leading new offering through IPD development process improvement.
• Devised new ideas into new CoE offering, while communicating and securing geographies commitments, and building effective and timely communication to ensure successful offering.
• Served as project manager, spearheading new BCRS offering through the development cycle and business domains. Led Resiliency Consulting Services, DR Planning, BIA, Risk Analysis, BCP and DR Testing.
• Led and deployed tools to support deployment and enablement of new offerings, products and services.
• Worked on the Blue Harmony Project (an IBM internal project code name for SAP Project), leading BCRS opportunity to order management, order fulfillment and process mapping to replace many legacy system and tools and create a WW standardized business processes with the objective of simplifying processes and reducing operational cost.
• Mitigated compliance risks by managing IBM Internal ASCA compliance, SOX, Internal audits and compliance.

➢ Global BCRS - Business Development Executive - Beijing, China and Amsterdam, The Netherlands (2006)
➢ Client Solution Executive/Project Manager, GM/GMAC (2005)
➢ Project Manager/Executive Consultant, Project: Mercedes-Benz US International, Vance, AL (1997 to 2004)
➢ UB Information Consulting Services - Senior Consultant, Project: IBM/Mercedes-Benz, AL (1996 to 1997)
➢ Assistant Project Manager/Manufacturing Consultant, Rallis (1994 to 1996)
➢ TULEC Computer Education - Training & Education Leader (1993 to 1994)

Education & Certifications
Executive MBA, The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL
Bachelors of Engineering in Computer Technology, University of Pune, Maharashtra, India
PMP Certification, Project Management Institute (PMI)
IBM Certified Executive Consultant

Core Competencies
Leadership, Team Building
Program Implementation & Management
Performance Management
Budgeting & Cost Control
Operational Efficiency
Project Management
Tactical & Strategic Planning
Change Leadership
Business Development
Regulatory Compliance
Client Relationship Management
Contract Negotiations
Vendor Management
Continuous Improvements
IT Strategy
Competitive Analysis
Business Process Transformation
Strategic Sourcing
Risk Management
Vendor Management
Disruptive Technology Evangelist
Cloud Technology - IaaS, PaaS, SaaS
Private, Public and Hybrid Cloud
AWS Cloud
IT Cloud Solutions
SOA
API
DevOps
Containers
Product Development
Predictive Analytic
Operations Management
New Acquisition Business Integration
IT Management
IT Governance
Service Delivery
Disaster Recovery Planning
Resiliency & Business Continuity
Data Privacy & Security
Audit and Compliance Management
SAP, ERP, CRM, SCM, HRM Implementation
Data Analytics
Mobile Web Apps
Data Center Management
ITIL
ITSM
Process, Methods and Tools
SDLC
Agile Methodology